>>ERICH VON DANIKEN:
We have all heard
of the myths and the
legends of our history,
but is there another story?
[THEME MUSIC]
Mixed creatures, that's a
phenomenon, but a phenomenon
which once was reality.
What is a mixed creature?
Everyone at least knows
one mixed creature,
that Sphinx before
the Great Pyramid.
This is a figure composed
of the head of a human,
they say the head
of the pharaoh,
and the body of a
lion, a mixture.
In mythology they tell us
well, it's symbolically.
Because the head of the pharaoh
symbolizes the intelligence
and the lion body symbolizes
the force, the power of it.
But I'm completely of
a different opinion.
I know that these mixed
creatures in the past, they did
exist.
In every big museum in the
East and in the Far East
you'll find mixed creatures.
And Egypt is full
of mixed creatures.
About 450 BC there was the
Greek historian Herodotus.
He was in Egypt.
And he writes, in the
Second Book of History
he writes, that
he was in Thebes.
Thebes is today's
Luxor on the Nile.
And the high priest
showed him 241 statues,
one next to the other.
And the high priest
gave to every statue
a short introduction.
And at the end the high
priest said these 241 statues
represent 11,340 years.
At that time the gods were here.
Since that time, the gods
did not return again.
And the priest clearly said
the gods from the firmament
were here.
He's talking about
roughly 14,000 years.
Because Herodotus makes his
statement two and a half
thousand years from now.
So to his 11,000 years we have
to add two and half thousand,
roughly 14,000 years.
Now Herodotus also writes
about mixed creatures.
By the way, many of
the old historians,
Diodorus Siculus writes
about mixed creatures.
Strabo writes about
mixed creatures.
Then we have an
old Egyptian writer
and his name was Manetho.
Now Manetho's writings
practically do not
exist anymore, only a few pages.
But 2,000 years ago,
they were existing.
Then we had the
father of the church.
His name was Eusebius.
And Eusebius took out
of Manetho's writing.
And in a full page he says
when the gods were here,
the gods from heaven, they
created mixed creatures.
And he comes up and tells
what sort of mixed creature.
Not only the sphinx, the head of
a human and the body of a lion.
He says that they made mixed
creatures with the upper part
of the body was human and the
lower part was a horse, which
means the centaur.
All these things,
Eusebius quoting Manetho,
said the gods made all this.
And of course, I have asked
myself why for my goodness
should extraterrestrials
make mixed creatures?
What's the idea?
It makes no sense.
Oh yes, it makes sense.
>> Six, five, all the
engines up and running.
Three, two, one,
zero and liftoff.
>> Liftoff.
Liftoff.
>>ERICH: You know, when
an intelligent society is
able to make space travel, they
will of course not only visit
one planet.
There are other
planets out there.
There are planets
maybe are closer
to the sun than the Earth.
Other planets are far
away from the sun.
That means it is
hotter or colder.
Some planets may be
bigger than the Earth.
That means you need more
gravity to survive there,
stronger muscles.
Other planets are small.
Like on our moon you can
jump an 8 or 10 meter jump.
So there are different planets.
Now for different planets
you need different animals,
different creatures.
Now the extraterrestrials,
they simply saw on our planet
for example, a crocodile.
This crocodile on the
Nile was lying there
and it was very hot.
But the hot did not harm
the skin of the crocodile.
And they realize,
for example, a lion.
The lion was attacking
gazelle, which is power.
Now they said, why don't we
mix this heat-resisting skin
of the one animal
with the power,
the muscles of the other
animal for another planet?
So they made mixed creatures.
Now if you make mixed creatures,
you can only do it by genetics.
Now our forefathers
from thousands of years
ago, they knew nothing
about genetics.
So if you can prove
that mixed creatures did
exist you know exactly that
there is high genetic knowledge
behind it.
And only the gods,
the extraterrestrials
had this knowledge.
And of course in
the meantime, you
can prove that there
were mixed creatures.
Our so-called gods were
the first genetic engineers
on this planet.
They had the capabilities to
perform genetic experiments.
They could perform
genetic mutations.
And thus they created
these mixed creatures.
On the other hand,
our forefathers
were terrified by
these mixed creatures.
Which is why today we
see them represented
as symbols of fear and
considered myths and fantasy.
The so-called gods,
the extraterrestrials,
they behaved themselves
like ethnologists would do.
They studied a few tribes, they
learned a little something,
and one day they
disappeared again.
When they disappeared,
some of the mixed creatures
were still there, still alive.
Now the humans were afraid
of the mixed creatures.
They were not allowed to
kill the mixed creatures,
so they waited until the mixed
creatures died out by itself.
So you ask why are there
no mixed creatures today?
They simply died out.
Roughly 200 years ago, a
young Frenchman came to Egypt.
His name was Auguste Mariette.
And exactly at that
time, another Frenchmen
learned how to translate
the hieroglyphics.
So Auguste Mariette was
able to read hieroglyphics.
And he read that
in these old texts
they always mentioned
mixed creatures.
But they never found
a mixed creature.
For example, in old Egypt,
according to the old tradition,
there was a sacred
bull called Apis.
And the Apis bull
was a mixed creature.
He was not a normal bull
like the usual bull.
He was not created by
a sexual come together.
He was made by the gods.
So Auguste Mariette, he knew
all this from the old writings,
but he never found one
of these Apis mummies.
Because in Old Egypt,
you have to understand,
they mummified
everything, every animal.
We normal beings, we
think the old Egyptians
they mummified the pharaohs.
No.
Every living creature
was mummified.
We found mummified dogs,
mummified crocodiles,
mummified fishes, even mummified
scorpions, little animals.
They mummified everything.
Why have they done so?
They believe every
living creature
would be reborn in the future.
But they could only be reborn
if the body is preserved.
So that's why they
preserved everything
in form of mummification.
Now come back to this
Auguste Mariette.
He knew the old
story, and he found
all kinds of mummies of all
kinds of animals in Egypt,
but not a mixed
creature, not the Apis.
One evening, he wrote this by
himself, he was a little drunk
and the next morning
he was out in Saqqara.
Saqqara in Egypt is this place
where the step pyramid exists.
And he simply falls over
a stone on the ground.
When he's standing up and pushed
the dust away from his clothes
and from the stone he
could read the word "Apis."
He said, Apis?
That was one of these
mixed creatures.
Are there maybe
Apis creatures here?
Now at that time,
Auguste Mariette was not
working like an
archaeologist would do today,
you know very careful.
And so no, he simply
used dynamite.
He made some holes in the
Egyptian ground near Saqqara.
All of a sudden a big hole
appeared and he fell down.
And when his people
gave him some torches,
he realized he was standing
before a gigantic, really
gigantic sarcophagus, absolutely
weighing about over 100 ton.
The lid alone 40 ton.
And he was fascinated.
There must be mixed creatures,
because such gigantic thing
you only make for mixed
creatures, for example,
for the Apis bull.
And he was looking
So they opened the
first sarcophagus.
There was absolutely
nothing in there.
It was completely clean.
The same thing with the
second and the third.
But later they found
other sarcophaguses,
because there was some
tunnels down there
which were filled with bitumen.
Bitumen is this
stinky mass, you know,
which you use to make streets.
So they put out this bitumen
from the sarcophaguses
and they saw that
in the bitumen there
were different broken bones.
They analyzed the bones and they
realized these bones are not
from one creature.
The bones are composed
of different creatures.
I said, how is this possible?
The old Egyptians, they
preserved every body
because without
preserving it, it
could not be reborn
in the next life.
So it was absolutely a
sin to destroy bones.
Why should somebody destroy the
bones of different creatures
and then put it in a
gigantic sarcophagus
and then cover the
sarcophagus with bitumen?
Now I have a story.
The sarcophaguses, the
stone came from Aswan.
Aswan is about 1,000
kilometers away from Saqqara.
That means in practice, they had
to transport these heavy loads
down with some canoes
or ships down the Nile.
And they had to go away
from the Nile four times,
because there were
cataracts there.
Finally, they arrive at Saqqara.
Some people chiseled
out the ground tunnels.
And then right and
left from the tunnels
they have some of these niches.
Now the other people, the other
group are polishing the stones
and polishing the sarcophagus,
absolutely sensational.
Now they put these
empty sarcophaguses down
in the tunnels and
down in the niches.
Why have they done
such a gigantic work?
It's an incredible labor just
for putting mixed figures
bones, broken bones in it.
It makes no sense.
Soon as you look at
it from modern term,
there were mixed creatures.
The Apis was a mixed
creature like the minotaurs
or the centaur, et cetera.
The mixed creatures
were made by the gods.
The gods were the
extraterrestrials.
They had the
genetical knowledge.
Now the gods ordered
to the humans,
you are not allowed
to chase, to kill
some of these mixed
creatures, because they
want to observe them.
The gods disappeared one day.
The mixed creatures
were still there.
Now the humans were still
afraid of the mixed creatures.
They waited until
the mixed creatures
died in a natural way.
Now they were dead.
And now they made
gigantic sarcophaguses,
the stones from Aswan,
underground tunnels.
They broke the bones
of the mixed creatures.
They put it into these gigantic
sarcophaguses, covered it
with bitumen, liquid bitumen.
Bitumen, when it's hot,
it stinks terribly.
You can use it.
And put a lid of 40 tons of it.
It was not the reborn,
it was the contrary.
These monsters should
never be reborn again.
That's why the
gigantic sarcophagus.
So today, if we
simply take one bone,
our geneticists are so
fantastic in their knowledge
they could very easily
prove that this is not
the normal DNA of a creature.
It was easy to prove
that it is the product
of a genetical design.
It's mixed creatures.
The problem is just no
geneticist will do the job.
I know one of the geneticist who
said Eric, I will do the job.
But once, when he come
to the result, here
we have the product
of a mixed creature,
he could never go to public.
Why not?
The time is not ripe.
His colleagues would
block him, he said.
What are you doing here?
This is impossible in our time.
You cannot come with
mixed creatures.
As soon as you have
mixed creatures,
you prove extraterrestrials,
because only
the extraterrestrials had
the knowledge in genetics.
And so the story ends.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Soon as we prove that there were
mixed creatures in antiquity,
then we know that mixed
creatures can never happen
by natural sexual intercourse.
If, for example, a human would
be so primitive and had sex,
let's say, with an ape, there
would never be a result.
Because the chromosomes
of the humans
and the chromosomes of the
ape are completely different.
So there is no mixed
creature coming out
of the womb of a female ape.
It's nothing.
So soon as you prove
mixed creatures,
you know for sure there must
be genetical design behind it.
Who had the genetical design?
Our Egyptian forefathers?
Forget it.
Only the extraterrestrials.
And then comes together
with the old writings.
Manetho, Eusebius, they
tell us the god made it.
And then comes the question,
why should the gods
have made mixed creatures?
Because they use mixed
creatures on different planets
with different conditions.
It all makes perfect sense.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
In old Sumer there
were tablets found.
And on these tablets you see
beings which in archeology they
called winged gods
or winged geniuses.
And they are working.
They are working in
what archeologists
say it's the living tree
or the tree of life.
If we look with
today's eyes, we see
it has nothing to do with
the tree, tree of life.
It's simply DNA.
Because you're always in DNA you
have four bases to connect DNA.
And you see the four bases.
They are changing out
one DNA base with another
and they create mixtures.
And there are proofs which
we can definitely prove.
For example, in the
British Museum is a stone,
a black stone called
Salmanazar II.
Salmanazar II was
a Sumerian king.
And there you see, no
doubt, you see animals
which are hold on chains.
And behind them
are the guardians.
And the guardians
hold these chains.
So these animals were alive.
But you see it on the
picture it's mixed creatures.
It's not an animal
which does exist.
And there is a text, a
Sumarian cuneiform text down.
And it says some mixed creatures
were captured and brought
to the king.
So you can prove
the mixed creatures.
This is important,
because it provides
a certain theoretical
justification
to much of the larger story.
When Herodotus was up there
in Egypt around 450 BC,
he was also in Thebes,
which is today's Luxor.
And there are two
temples, the Luxor Temple
and the Karnak Temple.
Between them is a difference
of 3.8 kilometers.
And Herodotus tells us they
walked this whole lane.
Right and left there will
always mixed creatures,
mixed creatures in stone.
Must be hundreds of them.
Today we only have a few left
of this avenida, this fantastic
street between the two
temples flanked right
and left with mixed creatures.
Today, everything is
possible by genetics.
Every impossibility
is possible today.
You know, some two
or three years ago
to make or to create a mixed
creature would be something
very, very complicated.
And it is not allowed.
It is forbidden because
it's morally and ethically
not allowed to create
mixed creatures.
But today, every geneticist
knows how you can do it.
If somebody would
be perverse enough
to create the mixed creatures,
no problems to do it.
But it is not allowed in
none of the states by law,
so they cannot do it.
I'm Eric von Deniken.
Join me next time on
"Beyond the Legends."
[THEME MUSIC]